so we were lazy and sort of did a poster
and we also have something a crypt had
if we actually open up that well you
actually put everything into the oh
sweet so there's the visual among us and
then we also have they everything in
text so so I think it'd be I'm sorry new
to scaling visible in the middle in
front of the time he is a separate
stream of screens oh yeah yeah yeah all
right so uh so really I think we talked
about the current state of DHT the
example that I certainly well-known know
like last couple days has been IP NS
issues for publishing and resolving and
the issue about oh who's DHT and how do
you scale that so we talked about
messaging protocols as well as this idea
of scaling it right now with like peer
pad you're stuck to maybe scaling to
about thirty or forty maybe a few
hundred users and so the issue also is
there multiple I think connections so
yeah actually you're limited by the
connection connections and this is what
we were talking to peer about I think is
that you know basically in right now
with the his issue is that they limited
to about thirty peers but so the idea
basically taking states and being able
to report state as an IP LD object and
integrating it signing it or integrating
it and creating a proposed state for
conflict resolution and and then that
and then reported back as far as any
conflicts they also the idea of actually
doing a calendar hash that basically if
this is a detached node and IPL D that's
an old state is using that how this is
actually injected this time point and
then a voting mechanism to do that so
some of the problems certainly is that
DHT nodes can be flooded now there's an
issue about membership of DHT s
basically how the IP NS was able to
scale from Kyle was spinning up a much a
bunch of extra protocol labs nodes in
the cloud but the issue is like how does
that scale two million
and so if he's protocol labs actually
spins it up but why would I trust open
bazaars dhts over protocol labs so the
idea of being a trusted super node
actually came up and how do you actually
manage a trusted super node well that's
verifiable claims that's something I
know about so that L so the issue flash
crowd crowds come in and try populate
into the DHT and the idea of actually
basically how to self heal your
continuum contributing resources to the
DHT until it actually propagates and be
able to have some way of visualizing
that network so that you can actually
get some feedback or the state of the
network as its self healing and
automagically scale back so some of the
solutions we proposed was the idea of
proof of work that as you push things to
the DHT you're asked to solve some
cryptographic function coordinate with
signals
so that's messaging gossip so basically
I was talking about gossip about gossip
basically again gossiping about the
network's the state as an IP LD object
concept see Rd T and and signing it and
gossiping and actually like reporting
back the gossip about that that sub node
and then that's using IP LD for the
state reputation systems so basically if
this proxy is not known and it's trying
to sign things for a whole bunch of new
peers and it's basically spinning up
trying to flood the system well this is
a new node that hasn't had enough time
on the system so it's it's a it should
be less trusted network visualization we
talked about network recipes having it
though what that was about
yeah so the basic concept is when you
when we end up having a couple like
these mesh networks right of hey here's
an established network they have what we
want to be able to do is provide recipes
for based on the situation that this
network is going to be in so that you
can have different configurations of how
these these kind of sub networks want to
operate so that it can kind of control
how it scales so if you have kind of
your your mesh rings and you have
this network topology kind of being
shared across as more and more nerds are
joining and demands are differentiating
and we can say oh you know what we need
we need to get another DHT scaled up
we're gonna go to one of our trusted
nodes tell it to turn into a DHT and
then we can watch the kind of the mesh
networks shift in transition and then
over time has skills back down we can we
can change that back so some of the
stuff we were talking about with network
visualization and simulation is actually
being able to set those recipes run the
simulations and watch the the meshes
change
yeah and that basically got to my
question for Brian was Brendan is the
model of the data of the topology of the
network and so actually how do you
represent that and to make sure they
actually here's the network that we're
trying to represent and here's the
proposed date for actually the conflict
resolution and at what time point and
then lastly yeah I guess see our DTS for
rebalancing that so I think defeat we
also had a couple different things you
have anything else to interject we have
a fascinating conversation though I
think we could cover everything we don't
know a lot about what candidate
solutions and like what we could
implement first so one of the
shortcomings or one of the problems it
all comes down to give better primitives
for applications to like give hints to a
peer to peer of what they need so when
this hopefully when we talk about
membership management's it's really okay
like I'm a peer path and I'm just really
interested all talking we nodes that are
on the same path as I am so why am i
connecting to the rest of the network
and so if there is something that
connects exposed by a p2p API that can
give people a way to then give that
information to the people peer that only
peer to peer can make better judgments
the other thing is really the
coordination protocol which is kind of
like very cheap protocol like it's just
like notes telling each other
hey here's like what I see from a
network it seems that there's a lot of a
load or like not a lot of loads of
course like these can be attacked like
someone can be lying but it's
this is just like to help notes make
better decisions if some note is telling
they're like oh I see three million
notes joining like we should like calm
down and like increase the size of our
crypto puzzle and then like ten other
notes tell you oh I just see they're not
joining then you can like lower the
reputation of that note right and so you
can use all of these to make better
decisions and in the end like a lot of
these networks like you don't really
need more like than hundred to two
hundred connections and this is already
a lot like you can do you can access
pretty much the entire network with just
like 100 to 200 and in some runtimes
like the browser we really don't even
want to have more than 10 or 20
connections otherwise we might just kill
it
so yeah like I guess I'm just like
repeating some questions my questions
this reminded me a lot of coral and it's
a great that you are looking at it I
think I think there's a whole area of
protocol designed to be explored there
on what these self-organizing clusters
should do one part is routing and coral
that's what coral does but there's a
whole bunch of other stuff that that
could happen I think you're you're
starting to uncover I would worry about
with a lot of these systems it has to be
used to get a really simple construction
for how these systems grow merge split
come back and in the house we can I'm
pretty stable when once you ship the
same protocol to like millions of nodes
and so we save like reducing the
complexity of that it is important and
so I think coming up with very simple
ways in which these clusters form or
these subnets form and how they do
something different would be important
but just more of a design thinking okay
okay one of the things that multiple
groups disgusts and we talk about a lot
about having fun so one thing that we
really want to have and multiple people
got excited about it just have a contest
like let's create a
and multiple people build different
topologies and I know it's coming with
all these use cases like we're streaming
and like forums and blogs and social
networks and like just what people go
wild like let's create a huge contest it
can be in person can be online what you
know what the research community the
hacker community the peer-to-peer
commune
just like to try different things and
try to find the best strategy so that we
can then have recipes right like the
thing that we started saying like oh
maybe like we'll never find a
one-size-fits-all solution unless we a
mile like all this but we can definitely
come up with multiple solutions that are
really good for some use cases and then
people can just like pick that from the
recipe book and apply the thing is we
will only know which is the best recipe
once we give it to move for many people
to taste it and so yeah like we should
what's just like to have a contest
like very very soon like this year like
should be like in one of the goals I
think that it's a goal for a hackathon
that did at the next meeting
yeah three months from now right yeah so
we have time for one more question and I
saw a coal raising his hand oh yeah just
echoing one sentiment about like
simplicity I think something that I've
like already gotten a bit of feedback
about is like the kind of back to the
like who's DHT question like oh should I
be running my own separate network or is
there one global network I know that we
tend to focus on like the single global
network and I think to that end we we
really do need a way to decline
initially like participate in everything
and then kind of slowly let the things
that you don't care about time out and
like leave your purview it feels like
something like that like rather than
being like super analytical about what
you're involved in and like subscription
management which can get super
complicated yeah that just seems like
that's like an insight worth worth came
forward the thing I was thinking about
immediately we're not immediately but
throughout the conversation is there's a
very interesting parallel one strategy
for buildings some of these things would
be much more secure
might be to do something like
probabilistic checking of a DHD so you
spin up a thousand nose
we distribute them in a ring and then
start for these kind of reputation
systems system design type of ideas you
can test some things and start trying to
figure out whether or not some noes are
misbehaving and then that coupled with
you know preventing notes from joining
in particular ways can couple well like
this idea of using a crypto puzzle to
delay in and coming into the PhD can be
very easily subverted you know if you
have some kind of auto scaling and like
you notice a ton of people trying to do
an ongoing attack then that just puns a
problem to participants just delaying
their their joining and then join you
very slowly acting honestly for a long
time and then attacking the network in
one moment but a way that that might be
averted is reputation systems the
reputation systems and peer-to-peer pair
really well but nobody has really build
one that works extensively well there's
a bunch of like problems I think the
torrent and tracker trust like tracker
peer-to-peer systems and one of the
tracker reputation systems and Victorian
like ratios we're a very good example of
this working very well but there are
that's a few and far between success or
success is very rare compared to the
number of times people have tried this
kind of stuff but this might work well
with in general security is one of those
things were like you just have to spot
an attacker once to be able to like get
them out of the network and so it is
expensive to join the network then then
reputation systems can work really well
just yeah anybody else have random ideas
so I think just building upon the
reputation systems I think the identity
issues and capability systems that I
think that the D ID spec is actually
supporting and these still early days
for creating a specification but the
idea of basically uh yeah I have an
identity and I have some nodes that are
controlled under my identity that are
share peers that so even though that
node is not trusted I'm trusted and so
that you can tie back in ephemeral nodes
actually that can scale up back to me
these being the source and so I think
yeah rotation identity membership other
things there's
I'm still new to like dhts and and how
to load balance that but I think also
just I think the the structured
protocols actually the context I think
what Stephen was mentioning I think is
to me this just makes sense so I suppose
the other thing actually I was thinking
about was how did the token economics of
that as far as reputation systems and
like you know it doesn't have to be it's
a separate one but I think it actually
how to make it distance disincentivize
yeah I like as extreme micro thought but
just as far as like the streams are
concerned I feel like super cheap
ephemeral streams are like really great
as far as protocol design and keeping
complexity down is concerned so I go
Stephen go go everybody go let's figure
it out because uh yeah I can't imagine
doing more intense work in the line of
like pipelining without introducing like
massive complexity all right so I feel a
lot of my ideas I've been represented
here by others so if I'm being redundant
tell me to stop but one that I would
definitely would like to bring is like
on this reputation systems it's very
important to make sure that we don't
leak important information about the
users that are using a network we
typically think reputation systems are
like the hammer that solves all the
problems they do solve a lot but they
also mean like they're stateful right I
get something over time like something
that you can start analyzing and like
just observing the patterns and
observing where that identity is valid
where and so you need to find another
mechanisms to like have reputation but
I'll click that's easy same user there's
some interesting research on that
there's a paper on a non rep that
basically is a peer to peer anonymous
reputation system I haven't really had
the chance to explore the construction
and in depth but like a lotta great
people talk about it and
other things like constructions just for
a key rotation and like this the ideas
around like double ratchet algorithms
and just like group coordination like in
a way not only peer so join but actually
wearing devices to join into you or
other peers like so if I have a group of
people and I am talking on a chat room
with my desktop I want to have my phone
join that room and so I can do something
like I I notify everyone that I'm
joining with my device I prove that the
device is mine but just to make sure
that there is no malicious entity trying
to force me to convince everyone at
another device is joining imagine like
NSA kind of like adding one device to me
through the network you can have other
peers like just check and it can be
through a side channel just check that
like yes the videos I in facts like
adding a device and that's fine so a lot
of interesting work on this on things
like matrix and the mega ohm per hole
it's also super interesting what else
yes I'm really excited about network
visualization and like the contests like
we should totally do a peer appear like
scale to millions contest and I see you
who gets that first or every year just
like get a little bit closer it's just
so the issue of our correlation we
talked about this in the D ID spec and
the what we came up with is a is
ephemeral identifiers and so which are
pairwise so this is why 255 1 9 is
actually critically important is
actually you do the de feel something
like the Tiffany Hellman key exchange
and you get to a prime number which
represents the pairwise Association and
that itself is actually the token to
move forward so actually there's a
pairwise so they actually they'll never
be reused in less than the same
relationship